Hello everyone and welcome back in this section of the course we're going to talk about rest a prize.
So our main goals for this section is to understand what rest is.
Understand different use cases for rest especially as beginners and flask.
It's often the case that you're not going to need rest right away.
And then after we learn those use cases we're going to be able to implement a basic rest API flask web
application that will implement basic authentication with flask and rest and that will also build the
understanding of the flask restful library through a small simple example where we make direct rest
API requests to a flask web application database and we'll also learn how to use the post man program
in order to actually make these requests So let's talk about rest and the actual motivation of why we
would even need it so far with only really visited our Web sites manually.
That is to say with open the browser and view the actual template files that we were serving to the
user.
So literally that means we're only serving information visually through templates and views.
But what if we just want to access to the correct information.
What if we wanted a computer script or a server to the rectory access our database without needing to
actually render things in the browser.
Well for that we can use rest and rest stands for representational state transfer.
And basically it allows us to provide interactions and operations between computer systems online.
So the basic understanding is that rest is a standardized way for communication between computer systems
on the web and systems that support and are compliant with rest are often known as restful.
So if you have a web application you say it's restful.
That means it's going to work with standardized rest requests.
So let's talk about when to use rest because when to use rest and implement in your own projects is
going to be really dependent on your final goal what you actually want your web application to achieve.
And if you have no intention of automated systems communicating with your web site then you actually
probably don't even need to implement rest.
It's something that comes with more advanced creations of web applications.
So let's go through a few use case examples.
Let's imagine you're creating a Web site for an art gallery.
Well in that case you have this nice web site and you're showing pictures of portraits or paintings
that are up.
Happened to be located in an art gallery.
And for that sort of web site you might really only intend people to visit your site to see the pictures.
So for that sort of use case probably isn't necessary.
But again it always depends on the situation.
But if your actual Web site the only intention is for people to manually visit the browser and then
see the pages in the template and then view the pictures there the rest isn't going to be a very useful
addition to your website.
Let's imagine you built a web site for an online store.
Now initially you may only intend people to manually shop online in which case you don't implement rest.
But let's imagine your Web site for the online store begins to grow really popular and because it's
growing so popular users want to create scripts to directly access items for sale programmatically.
Maybe they want to actually visit your web site and then have programs automatically order shipping
order items when they're running low internally.
Now for that sort of thing the user eventually only has two options.
Either they have to manually scrape your web site using some sort of their own programming scripts or
own programming tools or you as the Web site creator can provide a rest API and API stands for application
programming interface.
Basically you can provide the tools for them to automatically or programmatically interface with your
web application.
So again really it's you providing an extra tool for the users.
Now keep in mind there are many options available for implementing a rest API with flask.
One of the easiest to use and most popular ones is the flask restful library.
So that's what we're going to be using throughout the section of the course.
So this library will be using to implement automated access to a flask web application and for the examples
in this section of the course we're really just going to be focusing on the rest API portion of the
Web site.
You won't be worrying about creating templates or creating views since we don't really want to focus
on that right now.
So the general process for learning how to create rest API with flasks is to first learn about the postman
testing tool.
So we're going to download a little graphical interface that allows us to easily send then rest a get
or post request.
Then we're going to send the Jaison object back using rest and the flask restful library then we'll
learn about the basic rest commands things like get Post put delete and then we'll implement authentication.
That way people have to be authenticated before they can actually submit a rest.
API request and then we'll implement finally a simple example of a restful flask web application and
hopefully by the end of the section you'll be able to visit the examples on the flask flask restful
Web site and be able to implement any of those examples the results are really useful ones there that
I think will cover basically any use case that you're considering.
So as far as the main things we're going to focus on with rest is just the main actions of creating
reading updating and deleting and that should sound really familiar because we went over what is known
as crud.
We were talking about databases.
So essentially we want to be able to programmatically perform crud type tasks with the API and the rest
terms or the HTP verbs for this our post get put and delete.
So basically if you want to create a new object in your database or on your Web site you can use post
with rest if you want to get information about the object or read information you'd get if you want
the information you can use to put.
And then if you want delete an object you can use delete.
And these are actually going to be pretty simple to implement with flask restful.
So we're going to need to install a few libraries as we go along so keep that in mind.
You'll see me install these libraries that actually don't come with your requirements text file and
will also need to install postman which is a graphical interface for interacting of arrest API.
No there are actually several interfaces available for this sort of rest interaction and there's actually
command line tools as well.
So if you're already a pro in implementing API of other languages you have your own interface tool or
your own command line tools you prefer.
You can go ahead and feel free to use those.
We're going to using postman because it's free for our purposes.
And it's also pretty simple to use.
All right so here we are at postman dot com.
Keep in mind the layout of the Web site may change in the future so it may not look exactly like this
when you're visiting it but some are on the Web site you should see a button to download the app.
Something I want to mention is that technically there are paid versions of postman and if you scroll
down through their website or go to their pricing plan page eventually you should see that their pricing
plans were just going to use the free one that's totally enough for us.
We're just using this as a simple interface to actually make the automated rest API requests and connector
for flask web application.
Since we're doing everything locally and we're just individuals with small projects.
So keep that in mind reason the free version where we click on download the app and that should take
you to the download page again it might look slightly different from this but you should see buttons
for choosing or platform to postman for Mac placement for Windows and paceman for Linux.
Go ahead and download those and then install it onto your computer and you should be good to go.
Let me show you what it should look like once it's installed.
So once you've installed postman You should see something like this.
Upon opening it where you create new requests collection's environments and there's a lot placement
can do though we really won't be using.
So just keep that in mind.
Definitely not looking at all the features of postman.
Go ahead exit this sometimes asks you to sign in and create a free account so you can do that as well.
And here we have your workspace and we're going to be using this to basically create our or get posts
Reclast delete requests and so on and the requests are all we're going to be entering here.
It's just the local one.
But essentially all we're going to be doing.
And luckily we can actually save requests with some history here in order to just quickly make requests
over and over again.
OK.
So that's it for postman.
If you have any issues downloading it feel free to post Kewaunee forums.
But coming up next we're going to create a very simple rest API.
We'll see you there.